# Advanced Lake Biogeochemistry Model

**Advanced Lake Biogeochemistry Model (ALBM)** is a one-dimensional process-based lake biogeochemistry model that was developed by Zeli Tan to predict the response of lake thermal and carbon dynamics and water quality to environmental changes (`Tan et al., 2015, 2017, 2018`). It consists of several modules including those for the radiative transfer, the water/sediment thermal circulation, the water/sediment biogeochemistry, phytoplankton biomass, and the gas diffusive and ebullition transportation. Although the model was originally developed for Arctic lakes (`Tan et al., 2015`), it has since been used for lakes in diverse environments (`Guseva et al., 2020; Guo et al., 2020, 2021`). ALBM is a member model of the Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP) lake sector (https://www.isimip.org/impactmodels/details/232/). Please find the model use guidence in [ALBM User Manual.pdf](https://github.com/tanzeli1982/ALBM/blob/master/ALBM%20User%20Manual.pdf). Input data are available from https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.22635064.

### References

1. Tan, Z., Zhuang, Q., & Walter Anthony, K. (2015). Modeling methane emissions from arctic lakes: Model development and site‐level study. _Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems_, _7_, 459-483.
1. Tan, Z., Zhuang, Q., Shurpali, N. J., Marushchak, M. E., Biasi, C., Eugster, W., & Walter Anthony, K. (2017). Modeling CO2 emissions from Arctic lakes: Model development and site‐level study. _Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems_, _9_, 2190-2213.
1. Tan, Z., Yao, H., & Zhuang, Q. (2018). A small temperate lake in the 21st century: dynamics of water temperature, ice phenology, dissolved oxygen, and chlorophyll _a_. _Water Resources Research_, _54_, 4681-4699.
1. Guseva, S., Bleninger, T., Jöhnk, K., Polli, B. A., Tan, Z., Thiery, W., ... & Stepanenko, V. (2020). Multimodel simulation of vertical gas transfer in a temperate lake. _Hydrology and Earth System Sciences_, _24_, 697-715.
1. Guo, M., Zhuang, Q., Tan, Z., Shurpali, N., Juutinen, S., Kortelainen, P., & Martikainen, P. J. (2020). Rising methane emissions from boreal lakes due to increasing ice-free days. _Environmental Research Letters_, _15_, 064008.
1. Guo, M., Zhuang, Q., Yao, H., Golub, M., Leung, L.. R., Pierson, D., & Tan, Z. (2021). Validation and Sensitivity Analysis of a 1‐D Lake Model across Global Lakes. _Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres_, _126_, e2020JD033417.
